# Using multiple Rust source files

I am learning [Rust Programming Language](httpd://www.rust-lang.org). Its way of taking care of data helps developers avoid many problems in the future.


#### src/square.rs

```rust
pub fn square_of( number:i32 ) -> i32 {
    number * number
}
```
  

#### src/main.rs

```rust
//  add square.rs as a MODule
//  mod PATH_TO_FILE (without .rs extension) ;
mod square;

fn main() {
    let number = 4;
    println!("Square of {} is {}", number, square::square_of(number) );
    // Whenever we want to use a function from an imported module
    //, we have to move scope to that module using :: operator
}
```

This program will *import* `square.rs` module in `square` scope. But there is a catch, whatever variable/function we want to access from outside must be declared as PUBlic in the module.
If a variable/function is only being used within the scope, then there is no need of making that variable/function public.

___


Until today, I have been writing all the code for a program into main.rs file, main source file for Rust.  
The problems with this strategy are:
 - code becomes hard to read and fix.
 - computer takes longer to compile 🤔️ [^1]
 - seeing unrelated code, of other functions, can break focus. (This may sound like a none-sense, but I lose focus easily)
 
⚠️ Server powering this blog has no Rust Compiler installed. You will get error if you try to run the code from the browser.  
If you have rust compiler on your computer, feel free to clone `https://github.com/murtezayesil/blog.git`.
After clonning, you can compile and run example by running `rustc main.rs; ./main` command at blog/src/TIL/13.03.2020/

⚠️ Code segment for `square.rs` has a hiddenline toggle. I didn't write the code that is surronding the `square_of()` function but was generated by the mdBook. Because it sees missing main as a problem.

 [^1]: Not always but parallel compiling should benefit from this. While making this claim I want to point out that I DO NOT know how Rust compiler handles parallel compiling. But it is a good practice none-the-less.
 
 \#Rust \#code
